why your social media strategy doesn't
get any engagement there are 4.59
billion users on social media according
to statusa so why isn't your strategy
getting any engagement every brand
organization and person out there has a
profile but even though just about
everyone and their mother is familiar
with social media they don't usually
have the right mindset when it comes to
driving growth one of the most common
issues I see all the time is that
businesses using social media are using
it without a real plan just hoping that
their posts will somehow Catch Fire and
stand out in an increasingly crowded
Marketplace that doesn't work social
media isn't a roulette table it's a game
of strategy plan mindfully post with
intention so let's dive into seven
reasons why your social media presence
isn't driving any engagement
reason number one your content isn't
optimized not every strategy works on
every platform what might work on
Twitter might not work on Facebook
here's the example Carousel ads can
drive up to 10x more traffic than a
standard sponsored post on Facebook or
Instagram and they can also promote a 72
percent higher click-through rate it's
not just with carousels it can be with a
lot of different strategies in essence
what you have to do is adapt your
content to each platform for example on
LinkedIn we find that we get the most
amount of followers and engagement when
we create content that's on LinkedIn
without a link going back to our website
or with Instagram we found that creating
live video works extremely well because
users on Instagram find that live video
is more valuable than reading a blog
post so in essence you got to see what
works for each and every single platform
adapt your strategy and then post
content for each of those platforms Tick
Tock it's obvious work works there
LinkedIn as I mentioned they want
content that just keeps people on
LinkedIn even videos work really well
Instagram going live more often works
really well with Twitter try doing tweet
storms with YouTube they want engaging
long videos that not just keep people
watching that video but also keeps them
on YouTube watching the next video the
next video after that and even the next
video after that even if those videos
aren't yours with Facebook we found that
videos over five minutes long perform
better than shorter form videos
reason number two your content calendar
needs an update according to sprout
social index 74 of consumers think just
one to two posts a day is ideal for
brands
but here's what's funny a lot of brands
are posting one two three times a week
not even a day a week at minimum you
need to be posting daily on every single
platform that you're on because the way
these algorithms work
no matter how often you post all your
followers are never going to see your
content only a portion of them are but
if you post multiple times a day and I
recommend at least once if not twice
more than three or four times starts
getting a little overboard for most
people unless your content is amazing
but if you post at least once or twice
there's a good chance that a large chunk
of your followers will at least see your
content and a good content calendar will
help you with this
reason number three you're not using a
cross-channel approach the average
social user is active on six different
platforms a day and spends 2.5 hours a
day engaging on social media so the more
they're online the more they should see
your brand but if you're advertising on
just one social Channel or just posting
content one social Channel chances are
they're not going to see your content
but if you're on all of them the main
ones you will do well and it's funny
because you always see a lot of new
social channels coming out like whether
it's the clubhouse or something else
like Tick Tock although tick tock's not
really new anymore Clubhouse isn't but
you're always going to get a new social
Channel that's coming up yes you can be
an early adopter and you can count that
as one of the social platforms that
you're going to be on but what I really
mean when I say you need to choose six
platforms to be on you need to choose
six popular platforms that your ideal
customers are on and if that it's a tick
tock or a clubhouse that's great but
wait for them to just be a little bit
more popular before you jump on on board
that way you're not wasting your time
posting on social networks that don't
really have that many users
reason four you're not adding a call to
action the average click-through rate on
social ads is only 1.3 percent why
because most brands don't prioritize
having a sensational call to action in
their post something that actually
drives users to complete that next step
like like my page or subscribe here or
subscribe to my book or like this video
or heart this image these are all
examples of building off of the type of
content that you're actually promoting
that you think will engage the most when
it comes to your call to action with the
ideal customer so for example
if I had a marketing video at like this
I would tell you hey if you're
struggling with each of these social
media tips you should check out my Ad
Agency NP digital where we help
companies like yours figure out social
media scale it up and generate a Roi
which is true but do you see how I'm
relating it my CTA wouldn't just be like
hey if you need help with your SEO go
check out my Ad Agency NP digital sure
we offer SEO services but this video is
on social media so not only do you have
to have a call to action but it needs to
be related to that video or post or
image
reason five your posts are all texts
you know what people love to look at
pictures in fact 68 of social media
users prefer images to text-based posts
and it's not just images why not use
videos
you know they say A picture says a
thousand words I say a video says 10 000
words a video not only can really nail
down the point that you're trying to
describe but it can create some
actionable points that the listener or
The Watcher can take and then go
Implement in their business or their
life or whatever they're doing to get
more value and if they're getting more
value what do you think they're going to
do they're going to share it they're
going to like it they're going to really
engage reason six you're posting at the
wrong time according to hootsuite's
analysis of over 30 000 social posts the
most effective time to post is at 10 A.M
on Tuesdays Wednesdays and Thursdays now
that may not be the right time to post
for your business but it's a good place
to start you can always tweak your
approach from there now keep in mind
when I'm talking about this time if
you're in India and your customer base
is in India you would want to post 10 AM
during your own time zone but on the
flip side if you're in Los Angeles and
all your customers are in the United
States you may want to try 10 a.m
Pacific Time 10 a.m Central Time 10 a.m
Eastern Standard Time to figure out what
works best for people within the United
States
reason seven your customer service
approach is lacking are you answering
your customers DMS are you responding
with meaningful comments or customer
service is the primary reason consumers
unfollow brands on social media and it's
not just about saying hey I want to help
you because you want I want you to buy
my product or service you want to help
people because you care you want to
generally help them get the results and
the only way you really end up doing
that is by taking that extra step and
just really helping people out whether
they can afford your service or product
or not you do this because you care
now if you enjoyed this video like it
share it to other people about it if you
need help with your social media
marketing check out my Ad Agency NP
digital where we're the agency of the
year if you also have any questions
leave a comment below I'm here to help